[Music]
you're at the listening post where we
don't cover the news we cover the way
the news is covered in 17 years of doing
this program we have never seen a story
anything like Israel's war on Gaza the
extent of the brutality civilians
children slaughtered in their thousands
the disinformation the sheer volume of
it designed to defend the inde ible the
complicity of so many Western news
outlets repeatedly exposed for failing
to question Israeli propaganda and then
spreading it this war is a watershed
moment for the Western dominated World
Order and its media ecos system which is
why ever since the first shots were
fired we have covered nothing else we're
closing the book on 2023 now with a
compilation of our reporting on Gaza so
far documenting the information War as
it is played out our starting point
October 7th and on Saturday it's what we
are seeing out of the wreckage of
hamas's attack on Israel is
[Music]
unprecedented more Israelis killed on a
single day than at any time since the
country's Creation in
1948 the way they died what we have been
told and what has been alleged about
Hamas and the
atrocities
Gaza turned into a
slaughterous entire neighborhoods wiped
out by Israeli
bombs moral boundaries have been undone
Unwritten rules have been Rewritten and
limits dispensed with as though they are
now obsolete like yesterday's
news the vast majority of Israelis were
obviously not alive during the Holocaust
so this this is their first experience
um with atrocity uh of this magnitude
there is an undeniable amount of rage
and anger of fear but also it has become
a cause for Unity in
Israel the Netanyahu government has
called hamas's assault Israel's 9/11 the
Prime Minister who sees no immediate
benefit in a public examination of
Israel's military and intelligence
shortcomings targets his sound bites at
the enemy
instead across Israel's government
ministers are on message the enemy is
Hamas but the punishment meet it out
will affect all gin 2.3 million of
them
what the defense minister is promising
there cutting off a population supply of
food water power for its hospitals meets
the legal definition of a war
crime despite all of that at a time of
war the Netanyahu government can rely on
the Israeli media to match its calls for
vengeance even take them up a
[Music]
notch there tend to be shows with large
panels uh for hours on end and there's
been a high uniformity of message in
terms of almost one uping each
[Music]
other at the same time there has been
this constant drip feed of how come it
all went so wrong people whose family in
the military were were missing were
perhaps captured taken to
Gaza appearing and saying we've heard
nothing in the days after the attack
some of the coverage in the global media
spiraled chaotically one of the most
prominent disturbing stories was that
Hamas Fighters beheaded Israeli infants
40 of them it came out when the Israeli
military took the international media on
a tour of a kabut in kafar Aza where
scores of Israelis had been killed women
children women children babies the
Israeli Channel I24 ran the story first
based on a claim from one Israeli
soldier they cut of children C of wom
journalists were given no other
information the Israeli Army repeatedly
would not confirm the allegation but it
went out anyway babies and toddlers were
found with their heads decapitated and
it kept
going allegations that 40 babies were
beheaded among the Western officials who
echoed the story the president of the
United States I never really thought
that I would see and have
confirmed pictures of
terrorists beheading
children just hours after that statement
the White House took it back and issued
a
correction after 3 weeks of punishing
Israeli bombardment of Gaza Palestinians
there remain sealed off from the outside
world Israel is still refusing to allow
International journalists or
investigators in ask yourself why since
hamas's horrific attack on Israelis on
October 7th Palestinian journalists have
been killed at a rate of roughly one per
day among the survivors Al jazer
arabic's bureau chief in Gaza much of
his immediate family was killed in yet
another Israeli attack in a one-sided
War a military mismatch that has killed
more than 7,000 Palestinians at least
3,000 of them
children for Arabic speakers watching
the news of Israel's assault on Gaza one
face has been synonymous with the
coverage Al jazer arabic's bureau chief
there we
[Music]
ddu this past Wednesday ddu was
reporting live when he got the call the
one every Palestinian in Gaza
dreads
an Israeli air strike had wiped out his
immediate family his wife son daughter
and
Grandson they had been Sheltering in the
nerat refugee camp in central Gaza an
area Israel had designated as safe for
Palestinian journalists it was a
crushing reminder as if they needed one
that there is no Safe Haven left in Gaza
it's so scary and so terrifying to be a
journalist because you're not just
reporting on the suffering of the people
you're also reporting the killing of
your friends and your family
members we are actually seeing
journalists performing other duties
other than journalism heading to the
place that get
stried and just people gave me these two
babies one of the the most heartbreaking
videos is of M
carrying two
[Music]
children and he's trying to do
everything at once he's trying to be the
paramedic he's trying to be the human to
comfort the
children he's also trying to be the
journalist to report on the story
Israel's hasbara campaign its PR effort
to win diplomatic backing and shape
public perception is an overdrive these
days not that it's really needed in
places like India prime minister
Narendra Modi has been crystal clear in
his backing of this war New Deli says it
sees it as an act of counterterrorism
and self-defense just last month when
the UN voted in favor of a humanitarian
pause India abstained Indo Israeli
relations have been on the upswing for
the past few years now the image of
Israel is a Hightech prosperous nation
that survives in a region populated by
quote unquote enemies resonates with
many Indians and they've been showing
their support through posts online rants
on television with some disinformation
thrown in to skew how this conflict is
understood the listening posts minak
shiravi now on the pro-israeli messaging
that's coming out of India and why it
matters 2 days after Hamas Fighters
burst out of Gaza and carry out one of
the most audacious attacks on Israeli
territory prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's office posts this video
online Kamas will understand that by
attacking us they've made a mistake of
historic proportions within minutes the
message has thousands of shares and
replies numerous Israeli posts demand
netanyahu's resignation but there's
another set of messages from Indians and
they are all in so the responses from
Indian accounts have been extraordinary
to say the least sometimes they put up
posters in which they say we stand with
Israel sometimes they put Graphics of
two hands in a clasp painted with
Israeli and Indian Flags sometimes
they've just tried to reflect on how
this conflict in Gaza mirrors the kind
of challenges that India faces security
wise when we try to understand why is
there such a widespread interest in
India with respect to this particular
conflict one of the things is a shared
experience of terrorism when October 7th
happened hamas's attack on Israel in
India almost immediately parallel were
drawn with the 2611 experience which
were a major terrorist attack happening
on the Indian city of Mumbai in 2008 to
me it had a lot of shades of our own
2611 uh when you had terrorists coming
from Pakistan on boats and uh uh
creating the rampage that they did this
major space that Israel suddenly started
to occupy in the Indian imagination was
because that common threat was found the
same radical J jihadist islamist
terrorist
thinking that Israel is a victim of we
are a victim of Israel Israel is
fighting this war on behalf of all of
us Israel is fighting this war for you
and me new delhi's support for Israel
was Swift and unequivocal prime minister
Narendra Modi tweeted in solidarity and
Indian news outlets as though on Q went
on a war footing themselves channels
that just a few months earlier had not
seen fit to send their journalists to
cover unprecedented violence in India's
Northeastern State of Manipur they
dispatched reporters all the way to
Israel heavy bombs are being used right
now to take out the Hamas leadership and
you know there is collateral damage
proclamations of Vengeance and calls for
Mass killing were issued from Indian
news
Studios 1 for
one
[Music]
the left-wing anti-apartheid side of
Israeli Society is clearly in the
minority these days once the October 7th
attacks took place the country was in a
State of Shock such voices were largely
silenced and yet on the fringes of
Israeli public discourse anti-war voices
persist people like Orly noi she is a
journalist and an editor working with a
couple of left-wing Outlets plus 972
magazine and the Hebrew language
newssite local call her message that
Israeli Society tacitly approves of
ethnic cleansing and genocidal violence
against Palestinians does not represent
mainstream public opinion there and for
that reason it is a perspective that
needs to be heard it's incredibly
difficult to really thoroughly analyze
the impact of October 7th on the Israeli
societ
without a doubt this is conceived as the
biggest tragedy disaster that the uh
country has ever
[Music]
experienced one of the very worrying
things that has been happening in Israel
since October 7th is the silencing of
anyone who dares to speak about a
context you cannot
detach the October 7th from 16 years of
a Siege in the level of
counting the amount of
calories that every gazan is allowed to
consume daily what Hamas did on October
7th was really an unbelievable
cruel and heinous crime but it came
within a context October 7th turned me
and voices such as mine into Public
Enemies they are calling us Hamas
supporters they are calling us uh
traitors one of the things that really
hurt the most for me is the
delegitimization of my own grief over
October
7th it's like we were stripped from the
legitimacy to share that public grief if
we do not support the massacre in Gaza
right now if you're not
willing to be fully part of that
narrative you're not allowed to even
grief the horrible disaster of October
7th picking up your phone these days and
going through your social media feeds
comes with risks such as finding
yourself scrolling through a genocide
seeing what it's like to live under
bombardment in a war zone that's more
like a killing field where one side has
almost all of the Firepower and
Vengeance on its
mind as for the Israeli social media
space it has become a breeding Gra for
anti- Palestinian hatred ever since
hamas's attacks on October 7th there
have been calls for Revenge there that
are now being answered and celebrated
soldiers posting videos showing the
humiliation of Palestinian civilians
laughing as they bulldoze cars and
buildings taunting a terrified
population the Israeli newspaper haret
reported that one Israeli army unit has
its own telegram channel that puts out
similar stuff material that's meant to
mask a lack of progress on the
battlefield setbacks like the ambush in
Shaya Northern Gaza this week that
killed 10 Israeli soldiers you have the
Israeli soldiers themselves posting
their Spoils of War on social media that
are in direct contradiction to the
official Israeli military narrative
which is one of a just moral war against
Hamas video of them looting homes
stealing jewelry describing Palestinian
women as [__] while digging through
intimate items inside their homes images
meant to Galvanize Israeli society and
bring more support um from the home
front towards these Israeli soldiers who
are clearly on this Path of Revenge in
Gaza the way that Palestinians are being
perceived uh in these songs the
references to them as dogs and
cockroaches and particular references to
to uh biblical and and historical uh
[Music]
[Applause]
context um it's terrifying it it makes
you realize that this is not about what
happened in October 7 there's something
much deeper and much older than Al all
of this and I think it is actually
notable that a lot of prop Palestine
Twitter is simply just sharing um
Israeli social media output because the
Israeli soldiers and the Israeli
officials themselves are making it very
clear what their intention is they're
celebrating Palestinian death and
displacement so there is no need for for
anyone to kind of uh add an explanation
they're just sharing what we're
seeing images like this which can evoke
the
unthinkable Palestinian men in Northern
Gaza initially purported to be Hamas
Fighters stripped to the Bare Essentials
by Israeli soldiers put to shame a group
we later learned included a well-known
doctor a journalist academics the
Israeli military says it did not release
the images intentionally that some of
its soldiers posted them on social media
and that doing so was needless and
humiliating however that telegram
channel the one reportedly controlled by
the Israeli military has posted material
that is similar if not worse the images
have shocked overseas audiences but not
Palestinian ones that see them as a
reiteration scaled up of the
displacement and occupation they have
known since
1948 we shouldn't fall into the Trap of
the nness because this is part of the
way that the Israeli regime treats
Palestinians from 48 this is not the
first time we saw them many times
throughout those 75 years these are
images that resonate for me with other
images images you know from the
Holocaust Palestinians were racialized
by the state of Israel uh in a way that
it was predicted that they will be
constantly concentrated and killed what
we see now is a change in the scale and
in the speed and circulation of images
that provoke rage and calls by uh
Millions around the world world to stop
this genocide and they began sending
these messages to their own people if
you watch Israeli TV since this whole
thing started Channel 12 13 and 14 in
particular have done nothing but played
these videos in every TV uh program
political
debate they are trying to tell the
ordinary Israeli as a main target
audience do not worry everything is
under control we still command that kind
of relationship with the Palestinians
they are still humilated we are still in
charge there will be one day right when
the israelies will wake up to a reality
that they committed genocide so I think
we have to ask how those State
apparatuses like media like education
are being mobilized in order to uh lead
to such a genocide the channel run by
the Army I don't want to be shocked by
this channel because the state of Israel
runs like this
channel in Israel there are around n and
something million citizens people around
the world don't really know that but 20%
of Israel's population are Palestinians
technically we are Israelis we have
Israeli passports we have Israeli uh ID
cards we are citizens of Israel
but I think at the moment there's no
shortage of evidence that shows that for
at least 20% of the population of this
country it doesn't feel like a democracy
there's always been restrictions on
freedom of expression and freedom of
speech when it comes to Palestinian
citizens of Israel but you know post
October 7th was probably one of the
worst weeks of my entire life uh the
atmosphere was terrifying uh horrifying
there have been few uh uh incidents and
um few scenes on Israeli media that I
will never forget my entire life I
remember one guy looking at the camera
warning Palestinian citizens
of I remember another in inent where an
Israeli soldier was on TV with his army
uniform and he was talking to a
Palestinian journalist she was from the
Israeli Broadcasting Corporation he was
supposed to do like a small report on
Palestinian citizens of Israel and then
all of a sudden this guest on the panel
looks at her and says something
like
in the before times such monologues
would be labeled as you know Fringe and
maybe that you know TV personality would
get even
fired now it's mainstream there's one
channel channel 14 who makes uh Fox News
look like the most Progressive amazing
uh news channel in the world it's insane
what's happening
[Music]
there
at the moment if you watch the most
popular uh uh TV channel in Israel
Channel 12 and if you watch after you
watch Channel 14 you won't see many
differences I think my greatest
disappointment is from harit to be
honest for years and years and years it
was I would argue the only real
respected uh media Outlet in Israel but
what's happened after October 7th all of
a sudden you wake up you open the
newspaper and you see you know columns
and and and and articles and reports
calling for genocide even in harar some
of these people are my friends I thought
they were my friends I go to uh to their
social media and I see one of the
reporters just like sharing a photo of a
bomb signed by her I see other
journalists in that same Outlet making
jokes with their friends when they're
going to build their beach home after
they occupy Gaza and you know commit
genocide on the Palestinian people
that's not that's not funny that's not
funny that's really worrying and it's
really terrifying it's become insane I
mean I feel like there is no talking to
these people when Hamas and Islamic
Jihad Fighters broke out of the Gaza
Strip on October 7th and attacked
Israelis they transformed the status quo
in an occupation that has lasted for
decades the war of annihilation that
followed the indiscriminate Israeli
bombing the starvation and mass killing
of Palestinians has experts in previous
genocides calling this one what it is
among those targeted on mass by Israel
the people covering the story
Palestinian journalists documenting what
is happening have paid with their lives
the failure of Western leaders to stop
the killing of civilians the
international media's role in failing to
sufficiently question it will not be
forgotten their reputations are among
the casualties of this war here at the
listening post we will be covering where
the Gaza Story Goes next and how it is
reported